Good afternoon.
Happy Canada Day.
Thank you for coming.
I'm Tim Chernna, and I manage the
QuickTime Video Foundation team,
and together with my team
and the QuartzFX team,
we're going to talk about new
directions in QuickTime Performance,
which is really talking about
The integration of QuickTime and
Core Video on Tiger.
We're going to talk about a new
video pipeline we've been working on.
So, this lets you take advantage
of the GPU for video
acceleration and video effects.
And it will show you also how
to adopt Core Video for high
performance rendering and timing.
And we'll show you how to move away
from some of the QuickDraw data
structures that QuickTime uses.
So, today we're going to start out
talking about some simple ways to take
advantage of the new pipeline using H.I.
MovieView for Carbon developers and
Qt MovieView for Cocoa developers.
We'll also show you how to make
your pipeline customized by using
visual context and core video.
And then finally,
how to integrate this with
OpenGL and the new core image.
So before I start,
I want to talk a little bit about how
QuickTime did rendering before Tiger.
So movies would render into
graph ports and G worlds.
G worlds would be an off-screen memory,
and graph ports would
be an on-screen windows.
So, QuickTime could use a transfer
codec to go from an intermediate
pixel format to a final one.
And, for certain formats,
we could accelerate the
decoding to hardware.
But, it was important to note that if we
were going to an off-screen G world,
the movie would always
play synchronously,
so you wouldn't benefit from the
asynchronous scheduling of QuickTime.
So, the stack kind of looks like this.
You have the movie, and on top,
underneath that, it uses the image
compression manager and,
say, a primary codec like DV or MPEG-4
to either go to the destination
or it would use a transfer codec,
and in some cases,
it would accelerate that going
directly to the hardware.
But, the one thing to note
is that entire stack,
from the movie down to
the final destination,
is owned by QuickTime,
and it wasn't really a layering.
So, one of the things that we've learned
is that the movie is not a layer.
that we had in that architecture was it
was really hard to play a movie into GL.
Well, it's easy to do a bad job.
It wasn't that efficient.
And about two years ago at WWDC,
we showed a solution to write your
own custom transfer codec to get
the drawing notifications from a --
from QuickTime so you could
synchronize it with OpenGL.
But it only worked for certain movies.
It worked for movies where
there was a single video track
and certain specific codecs,
and it wasn't very efficient.
So that didn't work so well.
So we decided to build a
new video pipeline in Tiger.
And we had some goals.
The first goal was to have
good integration with OpenGL.
We wanted to be able to support
multiple buffers in flight.
We wanted to be able to separate
the decode and presentation logic.
And we wanted to layer
this on top of Quartz.
But basically,
this is the diagrams that we showed
at the graphics media overview.
And you know that Quartz
is basically core graphics,
core image, and core video.
And I wanted to show you how we're
going to build this pipeline,
so we made a little bit more
of a colored version of this.
So, how do we build a pipeline?
We went this movie to get
to the graphics hardware.
And the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to use
QuickTime to source and decode the
data like we normally have done.
We've chosen to use OpenGL to
do the rendering to the display.
And we've created these visual contexts
as a structure to source textures from
the movie for downstream rendering.
And we use Core Video for
timing and buffering services.
And we can also use additional
OpenGL functionality for transformations
of the image as they go through.
And of course we can add
Core Image for image-based effects.
So these last two modules that I've shown
are basically where your application
would customize the effects pipeline.
And this is where you as
developers can take advantage
and do whatever you want to do,
and we'll show you
some of that coming up.
So this is the architectural
stack that we've built.
And once again,
this is the video pipeline.
And to talk about this,
and we're going to have the other people
on the team talk about the various parts,
but to start out with
some simple solutions,
I'd like to bring up Sean to
talk about simple solutions.
Thank you.
So you want to get video
in your application.
Well,
what's the easiest thing you can do?
Maybe you don't care about
QuickTime or OpenGL and textures,
so you just want to get your
video playing in some window.
What's the easiest thing?
Well, Cocoa developers,
they can use QtKit.
I mean, there was a whole session this
morning on how to use QtKit.
And in that,
there's the QtMovie and QtMovieView.
So if you use QtMovieView in
your applications,
you get all the acceleration
and all the benefits of
Core Video underneath without having
to deal with any of this new stuff.
Similar with Carbon developers,
you can use the HIMovieView.
Now, this is a replacement for the
CarbonMovieControl and also
gives you all the benefits.
So, here you can see the movie view
takes care of the visual context,
it manages the OpenGL rendering,
and it deals with core video,
doing all the timing and so forth.
Same with H.I.
MovieView.
So, since the H.I.
Movie wasn't talked in
depth in the other sessions,
I'm going to go over it quickly here.
So, this is now the preferred way to
put movies in your Carbon windows.
It's now a full-featured H.I.
View, unlike the Carbon Movie Control.
So, it's going to work in
your composited windows.
And, you can also use Interface Builder
and put this in your Nib files.
And, of course,
it uses visual context to get all the
live resizing and the GPU acceleration.
Again, use this one instead of
Carbon Movie Control.
So, here are some of the APIs.
You create one of these
things with HIMovieViewCreate.
You can also use HIObjectCreate and
pass it the class ID of the HIMovieView.
Or, if you're using an interface builder,
you can create a custom HIView and use
the class ID inside interface builder,
and you'll get that in your nib file.
So, once you have one of these,
you can use the setMovieCall and
the changeAttributes calls to
change the movie in the HIMovieView.
Well, this is a slight difference
from the Carbon Movie Control,
where it was the same movie
from the time you created it
to the time you destroyed it.
You couldn't change the movie,
and there were some attributes
you couldn't change at runtime.
So, you can turn on editing,
turn off editing,
tell it to start listening
to copy/paste and so forth.
So that's how you use it.
And since it's HIView,
it makes heavy use of Carbon events.
So for example,
you can listen for the control-- you can
use the control get optimal bounds event.
And that will tell you how
big this movie wants to be,
taking into account the size of the
controller bar if that's visible.
And sometimes these
movies may change size.
So you can listen for a new event,
the movie view optimal bounds changed.
And that will tell you
when you get that event,
you know, OK, let's relay out the window.
because the HMU view doesn't know
how you want your window laid out.
It's not going to do that for you.
All right, with that,
I hand it over to Jim Batson.
He'll show us some of
these views in action.
Thanks, Sean.
So, can we have a demo machine?
Great, thank you very much.
I'm Jim,
and I'm going to show you some simple
applications to show the simple
solutions for showing accelerated video.
We'll start off by looking at Finder,
the canonical example that's been
used for HM MovieView already.
I want to navigate over in ColumnView,
over to some place where
I've got some movies.
And you'll see that as you're
used to seeing inside Finder,
preview over here.
And of course you can play the movie.
I'm going to jump around so we can get
some of the place more interesting first.
You can scrub.
Now, one of the things to note here is
that there's a lot more information
in "Tiger" than in "Panther" in terms
of metadata information about the
movie being displayed in this panel.
You see the duration,
the width and height,
and even the codecs that are
being used and media types that
are being used in the movie.
So, it's just kind of a nice addition
in "Tiger". You can also grow.
While even we play,
we can grow the movie.
This is actually one of the HD movies,
so it gets pretty large.
And this is, uh, H.I.
MovieView is being used
inside Finder to handle this,
and you can see it scrolling.
and updating and doing all the
normal behavior you'd expect.
And, of course,
this works for other movie types
than just your normal audio/video.
Bring up a VR movie.
Let's see it here.
Scroll over.
And you can still control it.
You have the normal VR controls.
and all that works nicely.
Another place in the finder where
you'll see HIMovieView being used
is inside the preview pane itself.
And you'll notice over here,
not only do you have,
you also have the extra information
that I mentioned before in the
preview pane in the general area.
and you also have the movie
being previewed here and it
plays well in there as well.
Okay, next I'm going to show
We're going to talk about
the new HIMovieView player,
which is a very simple
player that's built on top of
just... it's a Carbon player
built on top of HIMovieView.
And, first I'm going to go
ahead and launch it.
Open a movie.
We'll start off with Harry Potter.
Familiar movie,
you can just click around and
see the controller comes up.
"You can cook around and use it.
Also, you can make the controller visible
or invisible while it's running.
And,
you can make it editable if you want."
I don't know if you can see,
but the thumb for displaying
where you are in the movie has
changed to be the edit thumb.
Also, added some other controls out here,
just using the normal HI technique
for having a button and then
sending a message to the view to
implement play and stop buttons.
So, if you didn't want to
have the controller,
you can implement your own
UI for controlling the movie.
I want to show you a couple of,
something else that the H.I.
MovieView does support is the
focus and tabbing within fields.
I don't know if you can see it or not,
but when I tab between the text here,
I'm going to blow it up a little bit,
and I'm using the Command Option + key.
To be able to zoom in
and minus will zoom out.
You can see that the text
field is highlighted.
I can tab over.
If I tab over the text
field and start typing,
and I, you know,
The space didn't do anything,
but if I come over, tab over to the movie
window and I hit space,
it starts the movie as you'd expect.
So, this supports focus.
I'm going to
Command-Option-Minus to un-zoom.
Now,
you might have noticed that the controls
up here were not being tabbed to.
Just in case you're trying to
do that and want to find out,
you know, curious why it doesn't
work on your machine,
I'm going to actually turn
it on now and go back.
So, I can just come up here and find
where to turn on the tab keys.
Let's see.
I want to be able to tab between
all controls and windows.
So, now I want to go back
to HMovieViewPlayer.
If I tab over... It's hard to see,
isn't it?
So if I tab over to, let's say,
the controller visible,
I can turn that on.
Wow.
At least you can see the tab building.
Okay.
There's something moving out there.
It was a Dementor.
Now, one thing to realize is that
it's not just for playing movies
and only for movie applications,
whose main purpose is
to play video content.
QuickTime also gets used a lot
for playing little animations.
I'm going to bring up this alarm clock,
and you might recognize this alarm clock.
It's the alarm clock from iCal,
and that animation is done as a
is just a QuickTime movie.
So now that you've got H.I.
MovieView support,
it's really easy to add little
animations into your Carbon apps.
And finally,
I want to end this part of the
demo with a kind of a classic
QuickTime movie to show that the
There are other kinds of animations,
and they also still play.
So it's not just the new
H.264 or video style movies.
Is there any audio?
Okay.
Well, I'm gonna quit it now,
'cause the punchline is
not as good without audio.
So I'm now going to move over to,
we talked before about H.I.MovieView,
but also QtPlayer.
QtPlayer is built on top of QtKit.
And I'm just going to show you,
just briefly,
QuickTime Player by bringing up a movie.
We've seen this QuickTime Player several
times this week already.
I just want to show you some of the--
being able to animate up and down.
And it's taking the power of the visual
context and exposing it through this.
It can also go full screen.
Full screen.
I'll go for a sec.
I've fought many wars in my time.
"Some fault for that." Okay,
that's enough.
I'm sure you've seen enough this week.
So, one trick here is that if you
want to know whether Qt Movie Kit,
or sorry, Qt Movie or Qt Movie View being
implemented by QtKit is in use,
is you can control-click and
you get a little pop-up here.
So, we can...
[Transcript missing]
Earlier this morning,
saw Adrian show the QuickTime plugin,
a version of the QuickTime plugin
that he created very quickly,
leveraging the new WebKit facility
to add JavaScript binding
and the new Safari plugin.
and other capabilities that you can
apply to your Objective-C class.
And, he already went over the code,
but what I want to show you here
is briefly inside the info.p list,
[Transcript missing]
And here we have the plugin being used.
It supports these buttons down here,
just through some JavaScript.
This is the stupid movie this
year that was shown yesterday.
There'll be a full showing, I understand,
in the next session.
Let me just skip around
here a little bit.
And, the idea behind having,
being able to call QuickTime stuff
directly inside a plugin is that you can
add additional features like full screen.
So, directly from a plugin you
can go full screen your movie,
which is kind of cool.
So, oh, let's see.
The last thing I want to show you is,
another reason I showed you the
plug-in was that with Dashboard,
which you saw Monday,
The last thing I want to show you is,
another reason I showed you the
plug-in was that with Dashboard,
which you saw Monday,
[Transcript missing]
And just to prove that it's using QtKit,
here we've got... Look at that.
All that good stuff works.
And also just randomly support
full screen inside GAT,
you know, dashboard.
So, another reason I showed you
that with Gadget is that,
with the dashboard,
is that if you go back,
take your SDK back,
and you try to do this yourself,
it won't work.
Not with this version, anyway.
The problem is that Dashboard,
with the new QuickTime,
we're using OpenGL and
creating the surface,
the GL surface, with that,
with the window from
Dashboard fails right now,
so I had to kind of work around that.
And, but of course, that'll be fixed.
So, in case,
trying to save you some grief,
don't try this at home.
Okay, with that, I'm done.
And, just as a final wrap up, you know,
one of the good things with these,
the new H.I.
MovieView and Qt MovieViews
is that it helps,
it lets you add QuickTime technology,
QuickTime playback to the rest of the OS,
where we're well integrated now with
Carbon and the nice new classes in Cocoa.
Back to Sean.
All right, enough of the easy stuff.
So you want to customize your pipeline.
Here's our diagram again of the pipeline.
I'm going to be focusing on
the QuickTime side of it,
and later I'll hand it over to
Ken and Frank to talk about the
other pieces of the pipeline.
So, why do you want to customize it?
Maybe you want to perform
some image processing,
you want to use that new
cool core image stuff.
Or, you have some heads-up display,
you want to draw some FPS counter,
or you want to put some cropping
boxes over it or something,
I don't know.
Maybe you have a game and you
want to have a movie playing
inside the overall scene.
Well, you can't use H-I Movie View or
Q-T Movie View to do these things.
They're just designed to have
a single rectangular window
or a view in a larger window.
So, you're going to need to use OpenGL,
you're going to need to use
Core Video and the visual contexts.
So, how does this pipeline work?
Well, not going to have the view.
So you see the first thing
in here is the movie.
First, you're going to need a movie.
So you may be thinking, well,
I can just call a new movie,
or a new movie from File,
or a new movie from Scrap,
or a new movie from DataRef,
or a new movie from DataFork, or so on.
You have 10 choices.
Well, now you have 11.
Think of this as new movie from anything.
So, all the parameters are passed
in through a list of properties,
and all the results are
returned through properties.
So,
this is a super set of everything else.
You can get the same functionality
of all those other new movie
calls with this new one here.
But, the biggest difference is that you
can now create a movie that does
not inherit the current G world.
This was a subtle semantic of
all the other new movie calls,
is that whatever port
happened to be current,
you know, last call to set port,
your movie would get that,
and that's where it would render.
So, if you just created a movie
and started playing it,
it might go up all over
your screen or something.
So, with this call,
you can specify a visual
context to use upon creation.
You could set it to nil
and have it render nowhere.
So, this is the recommended
way to create all movies.
And, in fact,
if you pass all zeros to this function,
it behaves exactly as
calling new movie with zero.
So the next piece is the visual context.
So what is this thing?
It's an abstraction of the
video rendering destination
for QuickTime movies.
It's a replacement for the G world.
This is where we get our new
rendering performance from.
We can take advantage of the GPU.
We can have multiple
buffers going at once.
You know,
we're not restricted to certain movies.
So one of the fundamental
bottlenecks of the old QuickDraw
rendering model was that everything
went through a single buffer.
The decompressor would
decode into a buffer,
and then the hardware would start
pulling out of that onto the screen.
And the decompressor couldn't start
writing into that until the hardware
was finished reading from it.
So there was just a
fundamental bottleneck.
So now we have multiple buffers.
The decompressor can start decoding
into a completely different buffer while
the hardware is using the other one.
So we got rid of that restriction.
And we're not restricted to movies
that have single video tracks
with single codecs that support
the right pixel formats and
aren't transformed or something.
You can use any movie
with a visual context.
And because we've decoupled the
decoding from the presentation,
you get more asynchronous behavior.
Like our video media handler will
actually be decoding ahead of time
from what you're actually displaying.
So how do you create this thing?
Well, in "Tiger" we're shipping
an OpenGL texture context.
Now the visual context is
actually an abstraction,
an abstract base class in
the object-oriented terms.
There could be many different
kinds of visual contexts.
But for now we're shipping
the OpenGL texture context.
And it gives you a stream of
OpenGL textures for your video frames.
So you're going to need
to set up OpenGL first.
And we use the core OpenGL objects
to create this thing.
That's CGL context and CGL pixel format.
And most of you probably don't
use core OpenGL directly,
so you'll be using
Cocoa or Carbon to do that.
And Cocoa developers can use
the NSOpenGL context and get
the underlying CGL context.
Same with Carbon using AGL.
But the Carbon thing is new in "Tiger."
So there's a new function to get
a CGL context from an AGL context.
Same with pixel format.
And here's a little example code
creating the texture context.
Now, the textures that come out of this
thing can only be used with this
CGL context that you pass into it,
unless you create a shared context,
which is a more detailed OpenGL topic.
So now you have these two pieces,
you want to connect them together.
So you set movie visual context.
This is a replacement
for set movie G world.
And it's how you direct a movie
to use your visual context.
And note,
you can't have two movies playing into
the same visual context at the same time.
So this call will fail if another
movie is already connected.
If you want to play multiple movies,
you're going to have to do
the compositing yourself.
You have two separate texture contexts,
you'll get the textures and
use OpenGL to composite them.
Now this can also fail if your hardware
does not support the size of video,
or it's just not
sufficient for this movie.
More on that later.
Okay, now calling setMovieVisualContext
with null is also a little special.
Unlike setMovieGerold with null,
this will actually tell
your movie to not draw.
setMovieGerold actually,
when you pass null, it would tell it to
get the current G-roll,
whatever that happened to be, you know,
just like the new movie calls.
But this is actually going
to tell it to not render.
And one important note,
when you have a movie that's
targeted at a visual context,
and for some reason you need to
actually target it at a G-world,
first go through a null
visual context to actually,
you know, make it stop using the visual
context before switching.
You know, important little detail here.
Okay, the ICM can drive a visual
context new as well,
not just a movie.
So you can use ICM decompression
session create for visual context.
And this gives you access to
the visual context at a lower
level than the movie toolbox.
And there'll be more on this ICM topic
tomorrow at 3:30 in next generation
video formats for QuickTime.
Okay, the ICM can drive a visual
context new as well,
not just a movie.
So you can use ICM decompression
session create for visual context.
And this gives you access to
the visual context at a lower
level than the movie toolbox.
And there'll be more on this ICM topic
tomorrow at 3:30 in next generation
video formats for QuickTime.
Now this will pull out that texture,
give you a copy of it for
that same timestamp that you
used in the previous function.
Note that this uses the core foundation
retain and release semantics,
so be sure to release those
textures when you're done with them.
Otherwise, you'll chew through your video
card's memory in no time.
The last one here,
Qt OpenGL Texture Context Task.
This is used for giving the
texture context a little
time to do some housekeeping.
It's got to check all those textures,
see if they're ready to
be reused or something.
And, it's a non-thread-safe thing,
so more on thread safety later.
With that,
I hand it over to Ken to talk about those
textures that you get out of that thing.
Thanks, Sean.
All right,
so now we get into core video a
little bit and give you guys a quick
overview of what that's all about.
So, I've seen this diagram a
couple of times before.
I'm mainly going to go over the core
video timing and buffering aspects.
So, there's two main pieces
to core video today.
There's buffer management.
We wanted to have a common
data interchange format
between QuickTime and OpenGL.
That was always really tricky before.
G-worlds were very non-optimal.
You could get the bits out of a
G-world and get it into a texture,
but it was kind of a pain in the butt.
And, if you didn't write the drivers,
knowing how to do that
correctly is kind of tricky.
The other part of it is
display synchronization.
In this whole scheme,
you want to know when
to go and ask QuickTime,
"When should I ask for
the next frame?" And,
I'll talk about that in a minute.
So, first a little more detail
on the buffering model.
All the buffer objects that
you get out of QuickTime,
they're all core
foundation-based objects.
So, as Sean said, you use CFRetain,
CFRelease on them.
They're sort of an abstract base class,
if you will, that defines a couple of
interesting behaviors.
There's this concept of buffer
attachments for metadata,
things like timestamps might go there,
color space information,
that sort of thing.
There aren't any ones really defined yet,
but we expect that there
will be at some point.
There's also then a couple of
concrete buffer types you'll
run into in the Tiger timeframe.
There's CVPixelBuffer
and CVOpenGLTexture.
And again, diagram,
you can sort of see how that works.
So, just real briefly on CVPixelBuffer,
this is how internally the ICM would
like decode memory-based data.
Like if it wanted to, you know,
for a codec, it needs to be able to put
things into main memory.
It just doesn't want to
put them right into VRAM,
so it'll use a CVPixelBuffer for that.
I guess that's all I had to say there,
sorry.
Oh, and then this is the foundation
as well for the new ICM APIs.
And again, tomorrow at 3:30,
Sam will talk about
that a little bit more.
But, here's the one that's
interesting for you guys,
the CVO OpenGL Texture Object.
So, this basically represents a
high-level abstraction wrapper,
whatever you want to call it,
around an OpenGL texture.
And,
its job is internally to deal with the
details of how do I get texture data,
if it's YUV, is it 2VY, is it YUVS,
is it RGBA, is it A, B, G, R, A, RGB,
whatever.
So, it figures out how to
get that into OpenGL.
It knows about all of our custom
extensions that we use in Quartz,
you know, to avoid memory copies,
that whole thing.
The API is pretty straightforward.
You basically can get
back the texture target.
These days, it's pretty much always going
to be texture rectangle.
It'll give you back the size,
what the texture ID is,
that sort of thing.
And, you can use OpenGL to query
more additional internal
information if you care.
The one thing I want to point
out is you should really ask
us for the texture coordinates.
So, if you're using either
of these two calls here,
if it's something like DV video,
the texture might be 720 by 480,
but you might really only want
to use like a sub-region of that,
because there's undefined
regions and you don't want to
display garbage to your users.
So, the next part of Core Video is
the Display Link,
and this is sort of responsible
for driving the timing
into the entire system.
So, overall,
with this new visual context thing,
it's kind of a pull model,
sort of like Core Audio.
The idea is that every now and then
you basically go and ask QuickTime,
"Hey, is there a new frame available for
some upcoming display time?" And,
Display Link's job is to
basically tell you when you
should go and make that call.
It provides timestamp information as to
when the next sort of vertical blanking
period on the monitor is going to
happen for whatever display you're on.
Contrary to popular belief,
this does apply to flat panels as well.
They really do have
VBL sort of timing idea,
even if they don't really
have a blanking period.
That timestamp that it will give you is
a little data structure that's actually
required by the QuickTime visual context,
so it knows when the next
display time is going to be.
The interesting thing is that
it's not just a display time.
It's not like the time right
now when the callback is made.
We're actually trying to
estimate when the next display
period on your display is,
so it's a little bit forward in time.
But that gives you time to
do the OpenGL rendering,
set up calls, core image,
whatever you want to do
before the display happens.
There are separate render and
display callbacks that are sort of
happen one right after the other.
You can kind of use
that however you'd like.
We might define some more
behaviors there in the future,
but it's pretty straightforward.
And all of these callbacks happen
on a dedicated high priority thread.
It's kind of like core audio.
We're not so high that we'll bump
off the Windows Server or core audio
or screw anything like that up,
so don't worry there.
And it's similar to the same
high priority thread that
we use in the DVD player.
And you can create one of
these things from a CG direct
display ID or multiple ones.
And there's calls to switch
back and forth if you move
from one display to the other.
There's calls to do that.
So just to give you a sort of
graphical idea of what goes on here,
the thread that's running basically picks
up information from I/O Kit that says,
hey, here's when the last VBL happened.
Here's sort of the time
span from the last one.
So we can sort of guesstimate or estimate
when the next one is going to happen
and then feed that timestamp to you.
That triggers the callbacks,
and then you can basically go all the
way up through your custom pipeline,
ask QuickTime, hey,
what's the next frame,
and then start pulling it back
through all the other custom effects.
With that,
we'll bring Sean back up and he'll give
you a demo of how this stuff works.
All right.
So, now that you've seen all the pieces
for the pipeline that are required,
visual context, the buffers,
the display link,
I'll show you a little app that uses it.
Some of you may have seen this in
an earlier session in the week.
This is using the display link
to get its rendering callbacks,
and is pulling the textures
out of the visual context,
you know, like we talked about,
and rendering them with OpenGL.
So, since we're using OpenGL,
it's pretty easy to do, you know,
this kind of thing,
move the texture around,
rotate it around, so forth.
So, we thought, well,
why render one texture when
you can hold on to them?
Because we have multiple buffers now.
You don't have to use that
buffer and get rid of it.
You can just hold on to it.
So, we have an array of these frames,
and so forth.
That is the way I love Helen.
So, you can see, we're rendering many,
many,
many video frames every single pass.
So we can see here,
here's the dimensions of this
movie playing at full rate.
And we're rendering 46
frames every single time.
We're going to run that.
Remember,
these are high-definition frames.
So you can see, once you have the video
up on the graphics card,
you can do a lot with it.
And look at all the-- a
lot of horsepower there.
"I've asked you to fight my war.
You already have." "The loser will
burn before night falls." "Immortality!
Take it!
It's yours!" There's that.
So that was showing the set movie
visual context APIs that we were using.
We also added capabilities
to use the ICM APIs.
Hey.
So this is using a sequence grabber.
and extracting the
frames off the DV camera,
feeding them directly into the ICM,
which has been connected
to the visual context.
So,
here we can ignore the zero zero here.
A few more.
So look at that.
Almost 300 frames here.
This will be sample code.
It's not on the DVD.
It's not available yet,
but in a week or two
we'll have it to you.
So, there's that.
Alright, so, there you go.
Back to the slides.
Okay, so now for Frank.
He's going to show you how to use
OpenGL to do more interesting effects.
Thank you, Sean.
Good afternoon.
I will talk a little bit more now
what benefits we can add to this
new pipeline by customizing it.
And for that,
we use the OpenGL processing.
"You've seen that diagram,
I hope everybody has it now in his mind.
And I will talk a little bit
more about the gray area here,
so what can we do with OpenGL when
we use our new video pipeline?"
So, the added benefits that we
bring in by using OpenGL is,
first of all, we have blending.
So, you can compose the stuff
on top of each other,
and you can use the blending
effects that you have in OpenGL.
I will show that a little
bit later on in the demo.
And, the other part is geometry.
So, if you think of like putting this
into like some games or some scenes
that you want to play the stuff,
and you've seen it now
nicely in Sean's demo,
like how he can twist things around and
do all the funky kind of stuff with it.
So, in an overview,
what is it really now about?
So, the first part,
I want to take a little
bit away the fear.
So, you don't have to be an OpenGL guru
to really use our stuff.
As Ken pointed out already earlier,
we take a lot of the pain away from
you by using all the hard stuff with
all the texture management for you.
So, this is really,
really easy for you to use.
The other really important
thing to keep in mind is now,
we free up the CPU.
So, you can do additional processing
that's happening on the graphics card.
The CPU is now more free
to decompress video,
so you have less frame droppings.
You can use more streams
at the same time.
On the other hand, also, as we've seen,
like, with the resizing,
your UI is more fluid.
You have better feedback on this whole
stuff because the CPU has more cycles
to run on your user interaction.
So, that makes the live
resizing and zooming really,
really easy for you to do.
So for those who are new to OpenGL,
let me go a little bit
into the terminology,
and this is down the, ready,
five second overview of this whole part.
OpenGL normally draws in like primitives,
it's like rectangles and that is the
basic foundation what they draw with.
So what we can do now with images,
it's what we call a texture, and that's,
you heard this terminology
a couple of times already,
and that's pretty much like we
skin these drawing primitives,
and that's how they end up on the screen.
There's, as you probably missed
now all the OpenGL talks,
but there is a lab session later on in
which you can get a little bit more of
your fingers on what OpenGL is all about.
As Sean already pointed out,
thread safety is an important thing.
Since OpenGL is not reentrant,
we have to make sure that
we work with thread safety.
And for that part,
we have to make sure that we
use like Pthread mutex logs,
or we can use like an
NS log from some part,
or we can use like a shared
context that gets you around.
You can use for multiple
threads and Core Video,
as we already seen,
uses a separate thread to get
around the thread safety issue
that you normally would run into.
You have to use these logs
also when you use our new API,
the QtOpenGL texture context.
But there's at least one part,
the "Is new texture available?"
that is thread safe.
You can do that outside the logging part.
And for those of you
who want to use AppKit,
I want to point out that you
have to override the update
call and wrap this with a log,
because otherwise,
since AppKit will do some OpenGL calls,
you will run into some
thread safety issues.
So, getting now a little bit
into the deeper part,
how does the whole thing work?
So, you've seen all the pieces,
and I want to show you in a quick
overview how we really get now
the whole thing to the screen.
So, in the first part,
I'm setting up here a display link,
and you can see I create one,
I set up my two callbacks for
the render and the display part,
and after that,
all I have to do is basically start it,
and now I have my timing service running,
and I have the two callbacks
that will all the time be getting
called from our display link.
On the rendering part,
we see now the pieces
here that come together.
So this is now my render callback.
And all what I'm doing here is I check
if there's a texture available.
If yes, then I can throw away my old one.
I don't need to keep on.
I don't need the fancy
effect that Sean has shown.
So I'll just throw the old texture away,
get the new one,
and be ready now actually in the next
step to bring this up to the screen.
So how do we bring it to the screen?
It's a little bit more detailed here.
The first part,
I have to make sure that I clear out
whatever was there on the screen.
I just give you an overview here.
There's details that you
might have to look into,
like,
depending on what you are doing there.
And the second part
is I bind the texture.
And what does that mean is, like,
OpenGL now knows this is the
texture that I want to draw with.
This is the one that I'm
skinning my whole rectangle with.
And then I draw a rectangle.
And this is simply a quad,
as you can see,
with the coordinates and I'm
mapping the texture coordinates to
my rectangle and that's all I need.
And the last step, et voila,
I bring it with flush to the screen
and we'll see the image on the screen.
That is how simple it is for you to draw.
And now I will show you
the whole thing on a demo.
Please, demo application.
Okay.
So this is a little sample
application that I wrote.
It's, I call it, Live Video Mixer.
And what I will bring in now
is just three video files.
Which are a little pool beard game
that we had and we just shot this
with three cameras at the same time.
So I'm trying to imitate
now his studio here.
What I can do is now I play the
movies and I have the different
camera angles at the bottom part here.
And since OpenGL allows
me to compositing,
so I can superimpose the
close-up of that shot.
And say, well, actually, let me see.
Like,
I want to see the other camera angle.
See.
Yeah, I see struggling with
this part a little bit.
And I can do this fluently.
And you see that's like no problem
to run this on any kind of CPU.
And I can use funny stuff,
which what you call like multi-texturing.
I can use masks and put this
video in some funky shapes.
I can use this channel,
and I can actually say, well,
now they're laying on top of each other.
OK, let me take this one,
move this up in this corner.
You see how nice and fluent this
runs while the movie is playing back.
And I'm really playing back
like three streams here.
I have like a
semi-transparent shape here,
and let me position
this into this corner.
And even for the background part,
I can do this all the time
and play this up and down.
And with that,
we would like to go back to the slides.
Thank you.
So to quickly summarize once
again what we've seen here,
I've used the display link to have some
precise timing and that helped a lot.
And I've done these kind of
applications before here and I can
tell you it's worth tons of code.
And here's like really
a few lines to do this.
And then I use for the
compositing the GL blend part.
So I mean, just throwing a little bit of
terminology for you so that you
can find out later on in the books,
OK, what's this all about?
I showed you how to use masking
by using multi-textures,
which makes this really easy.
It's been a pain to do that beforehand.
Using for the resizing part,
we can do this simply with a GL viewport.
I normalize the coordinates so that
makes it very easy for me to work
in different coordinate spaces.
And with these little ingredients,
I can create a really easy
application that shows a little
bit more fun in this video.
And with that part,
I will take the stage back to Ken.
Thanks Frank.
Alright, so this is sort of my
favorite part of this.
So, yeah you can do all
this fun OpenGL stuff,
but you know earlier in this week
there seemed to be a lot of interest in
doing all this cool effects processing.
So, how are we going to get this
into this whole new pipeline?
So, integrating Core Image is
actually very straightforward.
I'm just going to sort of briefly cover
a little bit of the Core Image API here
in case you guys missed the session.
In this case,
you just create a CI context with
your OpenGL context in pixel format.
And then,
once you've got that CV OpenGL texture
object out of QuickTime's visual context,
you basically need to create
a CI image to represent it.
And, CI Core Image has a very nice
API for just creating a CI image
out of an arbitrary OpenGL texture.
So, in this case,
I basically fetch out the texture's name,
its size, is it flipped,
that has to do with whether
or not the origin is the
upper lower left hand corner.
Most of the stuff coming out
of QuickTime will be flipped.
And then, basically create the CI image
with all those parameters.
So, once you've got that,
you can run it through a
CI filter just like any other,
you know, core CI image.
You basically set that CI image
that you created to the input,
in this case just the
input image to the filter,
and then you can basically
pull the result right back
out again as another CI image.
Then you basically use CI like
you would any other thing,
and you call, in this case I'm using
drawImageAtPointFromRect,
I think that's the
method name on that one.
And again, you'll note that I'm using the
getCleanRect in this case to
make sure that I'm only rendering
the sub-region that's defined
by the original CVOpenGL texture.
So, a couple of notes on this.
Both the CI image,
well first the CI images are immutable,
so every time you get a
new frame out of QuickTime,
you're basically going to have
to create a new CI image for it.
There's a little bit of
trickiness with that though.
Both the CI image and the
CVOpenGL texture structure will
basically have a reference,
if you will, not in the sort of CF retain
or Objective-C reference sense,
but they'll both be referencing
the OpenGL texture object.
So, they sort of need to
come and go together.
So, if you're going to keep
your CI image around,
make sure you keep the underlying
texture that you've gotten from
QuickTime around at the same time.
One way you might simplify
that for yourself,
if you're a Cocoa programmer,
is you could subclass CI image to
basically do the CF retain for you.
And then,
whenever you release the CI image,
you can let it go away.
So, we'll do a little demo of this.
I was trying to think of
interesting demo ideas and
something we tossed around a month.
An idea we tossed around a month ago,
you know, not do CP or anything else,
was do some underwater
video color correction.
So, I happened to be on vacation a couple
weeks ago and shot some underwater video.
And this is like a couple of sample
images that you can see out of it.
These were taken,
the first image on your left is at about,
I think it's like 17 feet or so,
and the one on the right is
down around 50 feet or so.
And you can see that
there's a color shift there.
More and more the red
disappears as you go deeper.
So,
The other interesting thing is I need
some way to calibrate that though.
It's like, well, for what depth am I at?
How much correction am I going to do?
So, for that, where is it?
Here.
Well, the red, oops.
Go back to the slides real quick.
Slides please.
Thanks.
The color matrix is a good match
for doing the color correction,
but I still got to get
the depth information,
so my little trusty dive computer here.
The neat thing about it is that every
10 seconds it records what depth I'm at.
I can, with a little serial cable,
pull that information back out
and get a dive profile with it.
Right.
And I'll use OpenGL for a little
gratuitous heads up display in the demo.
So, go to demo one please.
Alright,
so I have this demo lovingly called
"Coral Video." I think it was Tim's idea,
so you can blame him.
So what this shows is this
is like a little video clip
that I shot one of the days.
I start out somewhat shallow,
again about 20 feet or so,
and just sort of swim along the coral,
and then end up down here
on the side a little bit.
So, you know, I can play that.
You can hear me breathe.
Everybody thought I should
leave that in there,
but I don't think it's that interesting.
Anyway, all right, enough of that.
So...
So, down here on the right I've
got sort of dive profile.
Here's where I basically got in the
water and then swam around a bit,
up and down, all over the place.
And then right here,
I put a couple of little bookmarks
in the dive computer to show where
I was going to shoot the video
clip so I could find it again.
So,
I kind of need to do a little bit of a
manual calibration step here and say,
"Well, okay,
this is about the start point of the
clip." The dive computer's bookmarks
are only accurate to 10 seconds,
so there's a fudge
factor in here for sure.
So, now that I've set the current time,
you can see as I move around,
the depth sort of in the dive profile
display matches where I am on the clip.
So, I can go to the beginning here
and I have all these little color
correction controls I can use.
[Transcript missing]
Back to slides, please.
All right.
So the summary on that is, you know,
it's, as I've shown,
it's pretty easy to get
this stuff into core image,
you know, once you've got the
stuff out of QuickTime.
All I was basically doing is
just feed the video and color
correction data into core image.
Really, really straightforward.
And use OpenGL in this case to do
an additional heads-up display.
Actually, there's one thing
I didn't mention before,
and it'll be in the sample code,
is there's a, I wrote a cheesy little
deinterlace filter in core image
as well that's in that app.
Just as a little side note
I forgot to mention earlier.
So a couple of caveats with this,
obviously, with this whole thing.
So, you know, here's the bad news.
So there are limitations to using
all this new pipeline stuff.
To use sort of visual context at all,
you basically need to be on sort
of Quartz Extreme class hardware,
and that's mainly because, again,
we need texture rectangle.
Very little video is 256.
256 by 256 or whatever.
There's also drawable
and size limitations.
If you're on an older piece of hardware,
it might not either have enough
memory or might not be able to support
texture resolution as big as the video
you're trying to pump through it.
So that's something
else to watch out for.
For doing the core image stuff, again,
as been shown earlier this week,
you basically need a Radeon 9600 or
higher or an NVIDIA GeForce FX or higher.
One thing you can do, though,
is if the video coming out
of QuickTime is going to
be too big for your VRAM,
[Transcript missing]
Wrong way.
I want to see my name again.
So we basically built this.
This is the architectural
stack from in Tiger,
and we built this pipeline,
which you've seen this diagram.
The important thing is that you can
basically use the movie views for
high-level access where you don't
need to actually get into the details.
But if you want to
customize your application,
you want to make a special application,
you can use the full pipeline to
distinguish your app from another one and
take advantages of OpenGL and Core Image.
Use the seed.
Everything you've seen here is
basically working in the seed.
A couple of notes.
The HI movie view that's shipping,
the one the finder's using,
the one that you can use is functional,
but it doesn't actually
use visual context yet.
We had a couple of integration issues
that we still needed to work through.
We'll do that for Tiger.
You'll find that some movies,
maybe if you rotate a
movie using QuickTime,
it might not play exactly right,
so that was an issue.
And then the call that you need to
get CGL pixel format returns null,
and we need that pixel format,
so that's currently not working.
That's a little note.
So, for more information, documentation,
you can get the information on visual
context from the QuickTime documentation
that is in the Tiger docs on your CD,
and then you'll be able to download the
sample applications that you've seen.
Some of it's already up there
today in the 2.15 package,
and some will be updated
as the weeks go on.
So, the hands-on lab,
which is basically the back,
the graphics and media lab,
tomorrow morning there's going to be
a bunch of people from the GL team
who can help you now that you're
all wanting to know how to do GL.
And then, in the early afternoon,
there's going to be the
people from the Core Video,
Core Image,
and the QuickTime part team that's
been doing the visual context.
And then, at the end of the day,
after the session on the new
ICM APIs and IPP coding technologies,
there'll be more people from QuickTime.
Upcoming sessions for you,
if you stay in this room,
or come back into this room,
you're going to hear the update
on audio and more information
about audio capture as well,
sequence grabber changes,
and also tomorrow afternoon, again,
next generation video formats.
We'll be talking about H.264 and
changes to the movie toolbox and
the ICM to support IPB coded video.
If you're interested in being
seeded with QuickTime as we start
seeding for the next version,
send your name, company, product,
and technology interest to
QuickTimeSeed@apple.com.
at apple.com.